MAKING SENSE OF THE DATA:

Receive reports about adverse events (side effects or abnormal things) 
that may be associated with vaccines.

VAERS is used to continually monitor reports to determine whether 
any vaccine or vaccine lot (Impfstoffmenge) has a higher than 
expected rate of events (more side effects than usual).

Disclaimer:
Doctors and other vaccine providers are encouraged to report 
adverse events, even if they are not certain that the 
vaccination was the cause.
--> introduces uncertainty to analysis
Since it is difficult to distinguish a coincidental event 
(zufällige Krankheitserscheinung) from one truly caused 
by a vaccine, the VAERS database will contain events of 
both types.
In addition, it is often the case that more than one 
vaccine was administered, making it difficult to know to 
which of the vaccines the event might be attributed.
--> What can we do to fix this? Omitting these cases
    would leave only a few apparently.
VAERS data are from a passive surveillance system and 
represent unverified reports of health events that occur 
after vaccination. Such data are subject to limitations of 
under-reporting, simultaneous administration of multiple 
vaccine antigens, reporting bias, and lack of incidence 
rates in unvaccinated comparison groups.
it is important to note that for any reported event, 
no cause and effect relationship has been established.
There are no duplicate reports of a case, even if it changed.
A given report may meet more than one criterion for 
classification as “serious.”
Note that the inclusion of events in VAERS data does not 
infer causality.

Purpose of this dataset:
VAERS researchers apply procedures and methods of analysis 
to help us closely monitor the safety of vaccines. When a 
concern arises, action is taken.
The primary purpose for maintaining the database is to 
serve as an early warning or signaling system for adverse 
events not detected during pre-market testing.

VAERS data is encoded in a standard fashion that is used
worldwide for medical datasets (MedDRA).
MedDRA is a rich and highly specific standardised medical 
terminology to facilitate sharing of regulatory information 
internationally for medical products such as vaccines.

Data format:
VAERSDATA provides information about the person.
VAERSSYMPTOMS lists all the symptoms of that person.
VAERSVAX specifies all the information about that persons vaccination status.
The three csv files are connected by the VAERS_ID that 
is the personal identification number of the above person.
A detailed description of each column in each of these three
csv files and also vaccine codes is found in the 
VAERS Use Guide PDF.

Problems with the dataset:
As stated above, the dataset is incomplete due to 
under-reporting. No cases are included where no adverse 
event occured. So, the total number of vaccinations is 
missing and the reports are incomplete. As a result, no
total probabilities can be calculated.

In general (this is also stated in the Disclaimer), the 
dataset can be the bases for qualitative analysis but 
not much more. Incompleteness (also varying 
incompleteness (past to present)) and lacking established 
causation of adverse events are the main problems. Though, 
qualitative findings can give a hint on what is worth 
looking into in more detail.
